bugs

Part 2:

 crash1.gft: Firstly, I changed the number of "number_of_gift_card_records" parameter from 1 to -1 to see how the output would change and to see if a segmentation error would take place upon reading the giftcard. I did see changes in the output however, no segmentation error was generated. From reading the giftcardreader file, I saw that there was no check in place to see if the "number_of_gift_card_records" parameter was a positive number or negative. I then changed the value of all the bytes in when the fwrite() function was called to 1 to see if the program would crash. I saw in the giftcardreader.c file there were no checks in place to make sure the byte allocation was correct which is why I tried to exploit this in the giftcardwriter file. 
 
crash2.gft: Secondly, I saw that num_byte was set to a fixed integer of 116 bytes. After reading through the giftcardreader.c file, I saw that this parameter value was being used to allocate memory by called the malloc function. I saw that there were no checks in place to see if the value of this int (number) is negative or positive. So, I exploited this and changed the value to a negative number. This called a segmentation error when running the generated giftcard file as a result of this change. The reason for this is because a negative value of memory cannot be allocated as a result the giftcard file will crash.

crash #3 - I could generate a crash for this however, I did observe that a segmentation error is caused when there is no giftcard (.gft) file provided when running the giftcardreader.c. For instance, when running the following command: ./giftcardreader 1 examplefile.gft. The expected output is printed out on the terminal. However, when examplefile.gft is not provided when there is a segment error seen on the terminal. Again, there is no check in place to see if a file is actually being passed when running the giftcardreader file. 


hang.gft - The hint provided in the assignment indeed did help in this part of the assignment. The record type field was exploit. When calling the animate function by passing the 3 in the record type parameter, I was able to see that the function goes into the while loop. The memory allocation keeps incrementing until the a value of + 256 is passed. Since char is being used to pass negative num due to the program incrementing. The program just hangs and cannot finish executing. Using an unsigned char value would be better in this situation which shall fix the issue. 
